---
layout: post
mathjax: true
title: Notes for CS 229 Stanford
---


In this post, I mainly post thoughts from taking CS 229 class online. It is much like self-displined. 

## Lecture 2 Generative Learning Algorithm

1 **Discriminative Model**:Algorithms try to directly classify a label for input such logstic regression and perceptron algorithm. The discriminative model does not have a concept of what the object might look like. They just classify. It cannot generate a new image based on the boundary.

**Generative Model**: Models fisrt try to learn each object might look like such as Bayesian method. Then, based on input, it gives a probability of the input being this class. It has the concepts on what the object might look like. It can generate a new image based on the past knowledge. 

2 With class prior, we can use Bayes rule to calculate the probability of being each class and then take the one with a bigger value. 

3 **Gaussian Discriminant Analysis**: 

For a vector-values random variable Z:

$$Cov(Z) = E[(Z-E[Z])(Z-E[Z])^T] = E[ZZ^T - 2ZE[Z]^T + E[Z]E[Z]^T] = E[ZZ^T] - 2E[Z]E[Z]^T + E[Z]E[Z]^T = E[ZZ^T] - E[Z]E[Z]^T$$

4 **GDA and logistic regression**:

If $P(x\lvert y)$ is multivariate gaussian with shared covariance, then $P(y\lvert x)$ follows a logistic function. It means that GDA requires a strong assumption that data of each class can be modeled with a gaussian with shared covariance. However, GDA will fit better and train faster if assumptions are correct. 

On the other side, if assumption cannot be made, logistic regression is less sensitive. For example, Poisson can replace gaussian also leading to logistic regression. 

5 **Naive Bayes**

This is for learning discrete valued random variables like text classification. In text classification, a word vector is used for training. However, if we have 50000 words and try to model it as multinominal, then the dimension of parameter is $2^50000-1$, which is too large. Thus, we make **Naive Bayes Assumption:**

Each word is conditionally independent to each other based on given class. 

Then, we have:

$$P(x_1,...,x_50000\lvert y) = $$
